tmp stuff here

Job talk: Mrs. Keith's kindergarten class
Monday, 6 March 2023

I. Introduction
1. most important job: Oren's dad (and Nova's)
   a. walk to/from school, care when sick, taxes, etc.
2. also: Mizzou professor in econometrics (5 syllables!)
   a. teaching (20%), like what your teacher does; also 1-on-1 "advising" for PhD students, some of whom then become professors when they graduate
   b. service/helping (30%)
      i. ex: director of PhD program (students are adults! and from many countries: Iran, China, India, Ecuador, Korea, Tunisia, Bangladesh, etc.)
      ii. ex: dept website (show later?)
   c. research (50%), trying to learn new things about the world that nobody else knew before, and building tools to help other people learn new things, too
   d. my website: https://kaplandm.github.io/
      i. research (briefly), including slides from TAMU (stick figures)
      ii. Google Scholar: can see other people using the tools I made to learn more about the world.  (Also poetry!)
      iii. teaching, including Mizzou Store link

II. Skills
1. writing
   a. textbook
      i. show: Alice, pictures, code, math, Practice!
      ii. pass around
   b. research papers (communicating the new things I learn and make to other people, so they can use them)
   c. emails to students
2. math
   a. what is math?
   b. grad school proofs (unfold, place on ground somewhere? pass around?)
   c. very few numbers: numbers can help you learn about math, but math is more about patterns and relationships
      i. ex: if I told you the height of every student in this room and the height of their parent, we'd have a lot of numbers, pretty confusing!  but if I told you that taller kids usually have taller parents, that's more useful.  the letters help represent these relationships, like P for parent and K for kid.
3. reading
   a. References at end of textbook...I read those!  besides the word "econometrics" (how many syllables? 5), cool words like monotonicity (6), overidentification (8), heteroskedasticity (8)
   b. referee paper (pass around separate sheets): read and help other people with their research; not only students, but other professors who don't know me (I remain a mystery, "anonymous")
4. video creation
   a. [1min] animal logic: https://youtu.be/i1WNQdT32zg
   b. [3min?] animal OVB: https://youtu.be/dqoI8qA-it4
5. coding
   a. help other people do complicated things easily
   b. most important: turn one big problem into multiple smaller problems, until they're small enough to figure out
6. presentations (like this!) at "conferences" and "seminars" (explain briefly)

III. Summarizing distributions
1. where is Mrs. Keith's class?
   a. could say where every single student is...too hard to say, too much information.
   b. can summarize/represent by a single point?
2. stand up, get into 2 groups (if odd+odd) or 3 groups (if odd+odd+odd), stand in a line.
   a. who is in the "middle" of your group?
      i. maybe we can just say your "group" is wherever the middle person is?
   b. staying in a line, try to find a way for your group's location to change without the middle person moving.
   c. can your group get more spread out without the middle person moving?
   d. can your group get more squished together without the middle person moving?
3. part of my research tries to help us learn about how a group is changing in ways that just looking at the middle can miss.

IV. [optional] Correlation vs. causation
1. when Oren and I walk to school in the morning, we notice that when we see other people with open umbrellas, we arrive at school wet
   a. if you all open umbrellas right now, will it get me wet? [...] why not?
2. OTHER EXAMPLES? OR JUST SKIP...

V. Prediction
1. I have a bag with 7(?) tennis balls: five have X, two have 4
2. If we pull one out without looking: which would you guess we get?
   a. have kid come pull one out, see what it is
   b. were we right?
3. (without replacement) now 6 balls left, __ with X, __ with 4; guess?
   a. have kid pull one out, see what it is
   b. were we right?
4. keep repeating
   a. eventually all same left, can guess 100%
   b. at some point hopefully pull out less-likely ball; did we make a bad guess? (don't answer)
   c. can put all balls back in once if more kids want to play

VI. Conclusion
1. I love being a professor because I love learning new things (research) and helping others learn new things (research, teaching, advising)
  a. you can read to learn new things from others
  b. you can write to help others learn from you
2. as an econometrics professor, you can use math and computers to help find patterns and relationships
3. thanks for participating and listening!
4. any questions?


2022a_qual_metrics.pdf
2022a_qual_macro.pdf
